### Note takers: 

Sathish Manickam (google) + Few more helping with edits clarifying their comments


### Notes

*   Starting with introductions
*   Status Updates - Google (Leeron, Josh Karlin)
    *   Get / Set: 
        *   Current functionality of TopicsAPI - one zero argument function with 3 purposes.
        *   Get/Set has a new argument;  observation = false, allows you to observe the topic without it being added as an observer
    *   Header: Improve the performance of the Fetch request 
        *   Do we need to support XHR? 
        *   Currently W3C recommendation is to discontinue support for XHR
        *   Zheng Wei: XHR support at least during OT will be ideal, and allows time for transition
*   Feature requests that we want to consider in the future
    *   How important are document request headers?
        *   Don Marti: Prefer not to have it on the headers for document requests, it would be easier to hook up to the consent management platform (3rd-party) all around if it is not in the document
        *   Zheng Wei: Ideal if it is included, will help manage the consent / permission policy
        *   Josh Karlin: It is clunky but may have to set up as an attribute as well as a permission policy 
    *   Implementation of Random Noise
        *   Plausible deniability, 5% of topics will be random
        *   Josh Karlin: New proposal, keep a consistent signal-noise ratio; for example if a caller wasn’t there in prior epoch only a random topic will be shown (this can be used to filter out the random topic). We can eliminate this, but keeping that  you will receive a random topic only when you are getting a real topic. 
        *   Lionel Basdevant: Would be good to have it
        *   Leeron: A more formal update to the explainer will be published, seeking more comments
    *   On Device Classifier
        *   Should we expand the data used for on device classifier: Should we go beyond top level domain, and include page title, URL etc? 
            *   Advantages: Helps with precision and recall
            *   Disadvantages: privacy concern
            *   Simon Harris: 
                *   Topics are not granular enough from the Publisher side. If we make it more granular, we will have privacy issues. Also, it will be less monetizable from the Publisher perspective. 
                *   Publisher Advisor council, and a blog post have discussed this challenge, with more granular: of the Sellers, Publishers, buyside, only one may have 
            *   Elias Selman: Capture more signals within the hostname is preferred; URL and Title will help, but that may not still be sufficient; is there a proposal to classification of product or other information? 
            *   Leeron: the current taxonomy is based on Content, google v3 taxonomy is on the audience side. We can connect more on this as well
            *   Don Marti: on the granularity of taxonomy; W3C TPAC there was discussion on user research related to what type of information / browsing can be shared. Before adding more granular taxonomy, we may need to understand this user research more. (Users have shown they are willing to share some info with trusted sites, but not necessarily with a random site that someone sends them a link to)
            *   Leeron: (Elias’s comment) - User interest signal, does that include what is added to a cart, for example? 
            *   Lionel: Signals from advertisers side may be more information
            *   Elias: We have done several studies, the purchase intent is a strong signal
            *   Simon: Assumed that’s what FLEDGE is aiming to do, why replicate in Topics? 
            *   Elias: partly true, but implementing it in topics can still be a contribution to the purpose of using topics to improve bidding and lead to higher CPM for publishers.
            *   Don: If you are revealing purchase intent, it may be not helpful for getting user acceptance, since Topics API is a general purpose API for categorizing and ranking users, and can be called in all browsing sessions (including employer, educational institution, landlord, health care provider, government)
            *   Josh: This was brought up during FLOC as well, but Topics has added more privacy features. The taxonomy and what can be included as signal need more discussion
            *   Elias: Agree that this is a general purpose API, but, we need to consider the utility as well. If only privacy is guaranteed, and there is no utility, then ad support will be a concern. 
            *   Simon: First Party data and personal identifiers  with more granular data will be an issue. 
            *   Don: Small publishers with domains closely connected to a shopping category may be feeding more into Topics API than they get out of it. Can be the other way around for other small publishers, all publishers will have to make individual opt-out/stay in decisions 
    *   Closing notes / Leeron
        *   Meeting notes will be available. Will be updating the github post as well. 
        *   Next call will be during the first week of next month
        *   Happy holidays. See you in January


### To join the speaker queue:

Please use the "Raise My Hand" feature in Google Meet


### Attendees: please sign yourself in!	



1. Leeron Israel (Google Chrome)
2. Josh Karlin (Google Chrome)
3. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
4. Don Marti (CafeMedia)
5. Christina Ilvento (Chrome)
6. Lionel Basdevant (Criteo)
7. Sathish Manickam (Google)
8. Neha Pattan (Google)
9. Simon Harris - DPG Media
10. Max Ostapenko (Opera)
11. Ryan Arnold (P&G)
12. Elias Selman (Criteo)
13. Maciek Zdanowicz (RTB House)
14. Mike Canterbury (Yahoo)
15. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
16. Marianna Cunha (Google)
17. Zheng Wei (Google Ads)
18. Alex Cone (Coir)
19. Sean Mills (P&G)
20. Jonasz Pamuła (RTB House)
21. Adriano Andrade (UOL)
22. Bruno Nascimento (UOL)
23. Caio Figueiredo (UOL)
24. Diego Fernandes (UOL)
25. Fabio Lethier (UOL)
26. Philipe Félix dos Santos (UOL)
27. Kacper Polewiak (RTB House)
28. Trenton Starkey (Google Android)
