### Notes



*   [#188](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/183#issuecomment-1570098944) Breaking change on how topics are included in the header
    *   jkarlin: Security issue, someone can figure out the size of the response with the current format.We wanted to eliminate it by using random padding.  The format is also quite long. Also the format was such that the header size with random format can be long. We condensed it, easier to parse (structured headers). 
    *   Sec-Browsing-Topics: (5 3);v="x", (1);v="y", ();p="P00000000000" 
*   Opt-in JS API
    *   Design change, currently  topics can be retrieved via JS API, in addition to or instead of, request headers. 3p can use JS API. This is a security concern. We w
    *   Jkarlin: Separate permissions policy for JS API or use the headers. 
    *   Brian May: Is there a github issue? 
    *   Jkarlin: No, not yet. Will create one soon. 
    *   Kleber: This will help, if you had to create an iframe, just to use the JS API, you don’t have to do it. More performant if you use the headers
*   Epoch Length - Recency vs Relevancy
    *   Currently an Epoch is 7 days. 
    *   Shorter epoch (3 days), double the information
    *   Keeping it at 7 days may have more relevant
    *   Brian May: Shorter time frame for the first Epoch at least. 3 days for the first epoch and 7 days for the rest of the Epochs
    *   Leeron: Why would that be? 
    *   Brian: If I am working on something (such as vacation planning), it may be a short term interest. Weighting it for long term will not be quite useful
    *   Jkarlin: This may have privacy implications
    *   Kleber: Making epoch length, non uniform, there is a privacy risk, and what is the top topic can also be an issue - topics over the weekend may be different from topics over the work week. Shorter epoch use cases are more easily handled via protected audience API
    *   Brian May: This would require creating an audience, and calling. 
    *   Kleber: Topics api is the per caller filter, which limits amount of information. Adtech can also share their topics. From Browser point of a view, a caller can receive a topic only when they observed it earlier 
    *   Elias Selman: This may also be 
    *   Brian: Will you be creating an issue for this in Github? 
    *   Elias Selman: There is feedback which can be used as an issue. ([#119](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/119))
*   Support for browser extensions ([#25](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/25)) 
    *   This has been a long standing request. 
    *   Don Marti:Malicious extensions should not be able to read the topics (same policy as we have now for browsers). But an actual extension should be able to do this. 
    *   jkarlin: Chrome currently supports extensions to be able to call the API, and return any topic it wants. It is the challenge we have now. We haven’t thought of extension support for Topics API. Including a ‘sec’ prefix may help with managing malicious extensions. 
    *   Kleber: There is a user setting where the topics api can be turned on/off. An extension can turn it on/off for example. 
*   V2 Taxonomy launch? (Elias)
    *   Leeron: We are working on a newer version (add categories which are more relevant, for example). We also want to keep the size smaller. We want to announce this soon, but have also coupled it with a few more changes, which are being reviewed. We hoped to make an announcement soon. 
*   Future feature priorities (Elias)
    *   Leeron: 3 biggest components as we see, as levers to increase utility
        *   Taxonomy
        *   Classifier (currently uses hostname) can have other info such as  URL, Page title
        *   Top topics algorithm - alternative approaches
    *   Jkarlin: Additionally we may evaluate / study the impact of changing the epoch length as discussed before. 
*   Reduce the leak induced by filtering [#121](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/121)
    *   Jkarlin: A site can say, I will only ever call if this topic is being used. It can identify that the person has visited a site with that topic
*   DSP-SSP Delegation ([#82](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/82))
    *   Leeron: SSPs (sellside) will call API on publishers site, and include the response in the bid request to the DSP. Should there be a mechanism to share the topics or be available by DSP (buyside). Not quite clear on the use case, but looking for a possible solution may involve encryption etc, which may be complicated. We are treating this as low priority
    *   Elias: In the ecosystem, topics may be commodities for the SSPs. Individual DSPs or publishers may not have access. 
    *   jkarlin: Concern is the ratio of SSPs to DSPs.. One SSP can fan out to multiple DSPs. Browser providing info from one SSP to several DSPs may not be scalable. 
    *   Elias: Scalability may not be a problem, happens now with 3p cookies. 
    *   Jkarlin: SSps need to share at call time, what DSPs can receive (what are eligible, relevant) and so forth. 
    *   Leeron: Topics are fixed for a site / page for the epoch no matter who is the caller (except for the filter). Global topics, at the most, can differ by small amount (1-3) from one caller to the another. There is little upside, but greater complexity. 
*   Any other topics? 
    *   jkarlin : we have a ~100 or so issues. We may want to discuss / close them. 
*   Next call falls on 03-Jul-23, but it is a holiday. May move it by a week or two. An update will be shared via email - join this group if you are not on it already.  https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/topics-api-announce	
*   Attendees: please sign yourself in!
1. Sathish Manickam - Google Chrome
2. Leeron Israel - Google Chrome
3. Brian May (Dstillery)
4. Eyal Abadi - Procter & Gamble
5. Elias Selman - Criteo
6. Josh Karlin - Google Chrome
7. Don Marti - Raptive (company that used to be CafeMedia) 
8. Garrett Johnson - Boston University
9. Yao Xiao - Google Chrome
10. Matt Digan - NYTimes
11. Lisa Markou - Ford
12. Ayoub Targaoui - Criteo
13. Alex Cone - Google Privacy Sandbox 
14. Jeroune Rhodes- Google Privacy Sandbox
