## Notes



*   Announcements (from the Agenda): 
    *   Adding Topics support to iframe navigation (jkarlin)
        *   This has been implemented. Please try it out. [#PR-145 on github](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/pull/145)
        *   https://developer.chrome.com/docs/privacy-sandbox/topics/#use-headers-to-access-and-observe-topics
    *   Research on User acceptance of Topics (Follow up from TPAC) - Available for review
        *   [User Attitudes Towards Controls for Ad Interests Estimated On-device by the Browser – Google Research](https://research.google/pubs/pub52194/)
    *   Privacy Research - Published and available publicly
        *   [Measuring Re-identification Risk](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.07210) (jkarlin)
        *   [Brian May] Is there a tipping point where the risk could be more than 50% if it grows with epoch?
        *   [jkarlin] there probably is, but the paper does not go all the way into that limit. Also, the paper uses only topics as a signal, but there are other signals are also there. 
        *   [kleber] - Team is limited by the amount of data we can retain for the analysis. So, theoretically going to a large number of epochs is not possible with the data we have.
        *   [Aram ZS] - Privacy loss, is this better?
        *   [jkarlin] We have about 1.5 bits per epoch, which is a huge improvement. Topics API is working as intendend
    *   [Leeron] - Taxonomy update
        *   [jkarlin] We currently have a taxonomy, but we will be ramping up with the new taxonomy. Ramp will take a bit of time - a user will have only one version of the taxonomy. 
        *   [Brian May] How much does the new taxonomy differ from the current? Are there insights you can share? 
        *   [Leeron] There is some material difference, removed a few categories, and added a few new. 
        *   [Brian May] Should we abandon training with the old taxonomy? 
        *   [Kleber] Yes, train them with the new taxonomy - that would be the recommendation. 
        *   [Benny Lin] - Are there plans to make significant changes to the structure of the taxonomy? Once you go live, will there be any dramatic changes to the taxonomy?
        *   [Leeron] - In OT the initial taxonomy was meant for testing. We are making material changes for GA. It is possible that we will be making such large changes as we grow with newer technologies, but in practice the changes will be less wide. We are also looking at external governing model 
        *   [Benny Lin] - Let’s say if the current taxonomy has reached about 150 mil users, and we release a new taxonomy which may make it more granular and the training may become less meaningful. It could be that people may not be aware of these changes. 
        *   [kleber] Granularity is related to the size of the taxonomy. This balances between privacy and utility. We should not expect the Taxonomy to increase by an order of magnitude. Smaller increments may be but not huge increase in numbers. 
        *   [Brian May] - Is there any interest in finding out what the impact may be? 
        *   [Leeron] - Yes, that is one of the things we are interested in. This will help with planning for future iterations. 
        *   [Brian May] - Will there be any communications regarding the impact? 
        *   [Leeron] - Yes, we are open to documenting them and sharing them out in a structured manner. 
    *   [jkarlin] - Selecting the top topics
        *   Current model likely to pick topics that are more general, but not necessarily a topic of relevance
        *   In the past: tf-idf, commercial values, using chrome data for making the topic relevant. Feedback? 
        *   [Brian May] - When we talk about something like revenue potential, we have to consider whose data and use cases are we using for this determination. If we commit to providing something like revenue numbers for the taxonomy topics, we are committing the ecosystem to support it and should be careful about what we require of them in that respect? 
        *   [jkarlin] We have a finite taxonomy, and this means there is some value associated with a topic. This hard, but we should start thinking about this be across all adtechs and how to do that is a challenge
        *   [Brian May] This is expected to be a community owned asset, and we should engage the community sooner rather than later if we're making decisions about how to value taxonomy entries to provide more feedback. 
*   Other topics
    *   [Don Marti] - Permission policy headers (filed a few issues on github)
        *   [#92](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/92) 
        *   [#82](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/82) - The original poster isn’t on the call. 
        *   [#60](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/60)
        *   More details in the agenda section
        *   [jkarlin] - agree that using JS w  permission policy is a good idea, which is likely needed for several apis. Encourage the folks to add this issue in the Permissions policy section. But what is the specific ask for topics api? 
        *   [Don M] - don’t let JS add allowable callers, use JS only to reduce the allowable callers (possible logic for handling this in [#60](https://github.com/patcg-individual-drafts/topics/issues/60)). This will help reducing the permissions policy issues by simplifying what’s allowed
        *   [Aram ZS] - top frame vs subframe controls
        *   [jkarlin] - if that's the case, the top frames has controls
        *   [Aram ZS] most of the ads are created with 3p folks in 3p systems with out access to the top frame controllers. 
        *   [jkarlin] - need to check on this
        *   [kleber] May be we can use an inheritance - after the api finishes, any new iframes added will inherit the policy
        *   [Aram ZS] Consent related challenges
        *   [Brian May] - Consent can change during a session and not allowing the page to adapt means folks will have to decide up front how conservative they will be. If there is more control, folks have freedom to employ more optimistic assumptions.
        *   [Don Marti] - When 3p JS is used for an existing purpose, allow publishers to continue to use the existing functionality unimpeded without tying to Topics API access
        *   [Leeron] - Can permission be added by one JS, and removed by another? 
        *   [kleber] - you can remove but can’t add. This is how Permissions Policies work in the Web. We are not making changes to that, but are only looking at how Topics will behave within the policy
        *   [Brian May] - Agree that this shouldn’t be part of just Topics API, but the overall on how Permissions Policy
        *   [Leeron] - Is the next step then, that we should create an issues in Permissions Policy
        *   [jkarlin] - If we can explain what use cases are blocked without implementing this policy, we can raise the issue. 
        *   [Aram ZS] - Pointers needed on the specific issue. 
        *   Regulatory compliance: block 3rd parties from calling in case of opt out, objection, or no consent. This is different across jurisdictions; if the site already has a consent management platform in place they need a way to tie Topics API to it. Cannot be handled at the HTTP header level for sites using a consent management platform (CMP) because the consent/opt-out state is not known until CMP JS has run. (Possible alternative here would be for all callers to respect IAB GPP, however this has not happened so far)
        *   Facilitate A/B testing of Topics API callers (as sites can already do easily with other third-party data collection). Normally sites can A/B test a third party with JavaScript only. Requiring a second A/B testing framework at the CMS or web server level is an additional development task for all sites, and a large issue for sites that rely on an ad management service, separate from their host, to manage A/B testing for them.
        *   Opt out some pages but not others on a site (for example, product pages for pharmacy items and toys on the same retail site). Similar to the shared hosting issue: a site may rely on a retail platform that supplies HTTP headers, but have access to manage JavaScript on the page.


## Attendees: please sign yourself in!	



1. Brian May (Dstillery)
2. Josh Karlin (Google Chrome)
3. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
4. Sathish Manickam (Google Chrome)
5. Eyal Abadi (Procter & Gamble)
6. Leeron Israel (Google Chrome)
7. Lidia Schneck (Google Chrome)
8. Rotem Dar (eyeo)
9. Matt Digan (New York Times)
10. Benny Lin (Bombora)
11. Michael Kleber (Google Chrome)
12. Aram Zucker-Scharff (The Washington Post)
13. Don Marti (Raptive) (Raptive is the company that used to be CafeMedia)
14. Yao Xiao (Google Chrome)
15. Kazuhiro Hoya (Fuji Television Network)
16. Jeroune Rhodes (Google Chrome)
17. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
